Snowflake Connectivity Changes – Eliminating the Use of Proxy
1. Overview
This document describes upcoming changes to the way we connect to Snowflake, specifically removing the need for an HTTP proxy when query results exceed certain data thresholds. Currently, in the event large datasets are returned, Snowflake retrieves that data from AWS S3. Due to existing network/security settings, a proxy must be used to facilitate these data transfers. We will transition to using an AWS S3 DNS VPC Endpoint (an AWS Interface Endpoint) to remove the need for a proxy entirely.

Key Highlights
Current Behavior: Uses an HTTP proxy to connect to S3 for large dataset retrieval.
Proposed Change: Leverage an AWS S3 DNS VPC Endpoint within Snowflake, removing the proxy configuration.
Impact: Code and configuration changes will be required by user teams to remove proxy references.
Implementation Timeline: All environments (Development, UAT, and Production) must be updated by January 20, 2025.
2. Current Setup
Snowflake Connectivity Flow

When queries exceed a certain size, Snowflake streams the result set from an AWS S3 bucket.
Because of the VPC and internet gateway restrictions, an HTTP proxy is currently required to handle these calls to the S3 bucket.
AWS Networking Components

AWS Direct Connect or AWS PrivateLink may be in place to ensure secure connectivity from on-premises or from the user’s VPC to Snowflake.
S3 Policy VPC ID is used to limit S3 bucket access to specific VPCs.
Challenges

Managing proxy configurations and credentials in application code, ETL scripts, and BI tools.
Potential overhead for large-scale data ingestion or egress through a single proxy endpoint.
Complexity in debugging and diagnosing performance issues in a proxy environment.
3. Proposed Setup
Transition to AWS S3 DNS VPC Endpoint

We will move away from the S3 Policy VPC ID approach and instead define an AWS S3 DNS VPC Endpoint (Interface Endpoint).
This allows direct connectivity from Snowflake to your S3 bucket without routing through an external proxy.
Snowflake User-Level Configuration

For each Snowflake user or service account needing proxy-less connectivity, the Nucleus team will run:
sql
Copy code
ALTER USER <username>
SET S3_STAGE_VPCE_DNS_NAME = '<VPC_ENDPOINT>.amazonaws.com';
Benefit: Snowflake knows to connect to this specific VPC endpoint for any S3-based data retrieval, bypassing the HTTP proxy.
Account-Level Implementation

After all teams have validated and transitioned to this new configuration, the setting will be applied at the Snowflake Account Level.
This final step ensures that all users inherit the same S3 DNS VPC Endpoint by default, fully eliminating proxy usage for S3 data access.
Advantages

Improved Performance: Direct S3 connections can reduce latency and eliminate the bottleneck of a proxy server.
Simplified Administration: Less overhead in maintaining and troubleshooting proxy settings.
Enhanced Security: Traffic is restricted to the VPC endpoint with AWS PrivateLink, reducing external exposure.
4. Scope of Changes
Nucleus Team Responsibilities

Create/Amend Snowflake Users: Update each user’s S3 staging configuration (S3_STAGE_VPCE_DNS_NAME).
Provide Technical Guidance: Offer documentation and best practices on removing proxy references.
Account-Level Rollout: Once all user teams have fully transitioned, apply S3 DNS endpoint settings globally at the Snowflake account level.
User Teams’ Responsibilities

Code Updates: Remove or disable proxy configurations in scripts, ETL jobs, custom applications, etc.
BI Tools/Reporting Changes: Adjust Power BI, Tableau, and other tools to ensure connections do not require a proxy.
Environment-by-Environment Migration:
Dev → UAT → Prod: Validate connectivity and data retrieval at each stage.
Optional Service Account Migration:
If teams need a phased approach, they can request new Snowflake service accounts configured with the DNS endpoint.
Migrate processes in batches and eventually decommission old service accounts after all workflows have moved.
5. Implementation Phases
Phase 1: User-Level Rollout

Start Date: Immediately
Nucleus Team configures S3_STAGE_VPCE_DNS_NAME for individual user accounts or newly created service accounts.
Users begin removing proxy configurations, verifying connectivity to Snowflake and S3 data retrieval (especially for large query results).
Phase 2: Validation and Iterative Updates

In Progress: Continues until all user teams complete Dev, UAT, and Prod migrations.
Nucleus Team monitors progress, assists with troubleshooting, and ensures no workflow disruptions.
Incremental rollout per environment (Dev → UAT → Prod) or per batch of processes via new service accounts.
Phase 3: Account-Level Change

Target Date: Post-January 20, 2025 or once all teams have successfully transitioned.
Nucleus Team applies the DNS endpoint configuration at the Snowflake account level, making it the default.
At this stage, the HTTP proxy is fully deprecated for S3-based data retrieval.
6. Timeline and Key Milestones
Milestone	Date	Owner	Notes
User-Level Changes Begin	Immediately	Nucleus + Users	Nucleus modifies user settings; users remove proxy references.
Dev Environment Completed	Team-Specific	Users	Code changes validated in development.
UAT Environment Completed	Team-Specific	Users	Testing and validation in UAT.
Production Rollout Completed	Team-Specific	Users	Final production switchover.
All Teams Completed	Jan 20, 2025	Users	Deadline for completing migration across all environments.
Account-Level Snowflake Configuration	Post Jan 20, 2025	Nucleus	Once all users have confirmed updates.
7. Next Steps & Action Items
User Teams

Identify all code, ETL pipelines, and BI tools currently using a proxy to connect to Snowflake.
Plan an environment-by-environment (or phased) migration, removing proxy settings.
Reach out to the Nucleus team to request new service accounts or user updates as needed.
Nucleus Team

Execute ALTER USER … SET S3_STAGE_VPCE_DNS_NAME statements to enable DNS-based S3 connectivity.
Provide ongoing support during the Dev, UAT, and Production rollouts.
Make a final account-level update once all users have transitioned.
Contact Information
Nucleus Team Contact: [Provide email address/Slack channel/Teams group]
Snowflake Support: [Link to internal knowledge base or vendor documentation]
AWS S3 & VPC Endpoint Reference: [Link to AWS documentation on creating and using Interface Endpoints]
